[Music]
over the last four or five years we've
acquired technologies
to change and interrogate not just
change but to interrogate the human
genome with a kind of facility that we
didn't have before
in other words that two things that are
coming out of this
one thing is that
we were struggling as you very well know
we were struggling in medicine in
biology in the sciences to explain the
nature of human variation why do you
look different from from me why is your
biological feature medical fate
different from mine why does a young
woman have breast cancer another young
woman does not why does my child suffer
from one illness another child does not
we knew that there were genetic
components they're not the only
components we knew they were powerful
genetic components to this but we didn't
know what those components were
we now are beginning to know those
components and often they might have not
one gene but may have a hundred may have
200 and our computational power our
knowledge our power of knowledge was at
its at its very limit but we seem to
have now crossed into a new arena of
limits
and there seems to be no limit as long
as the features are heritable we seem to
have be able to capture that information
using genetics and computational
technologies including AI
that's reading
writing takes a deeper step into the
into the what I call the exhilarating
abyss of human biology
writing means that we also have the
capacity just begin to change the
information you can now again based on
technologies discovered about five to
six years ago which we are using a lot
in our own laboratories we're doing is
actually daily we're changing human
genetic information
we can change now on really on demand I
should say we can change on demand I
think it's not an exaggeration to say
virtually any gene of choice
in the human and we can probably change
it in a human embryo
probably more than one
any gene of choice we can certainly
delete
jeans you can inactivate a gene like
Braca one which will in a human embryo
or or or a sperm producing cell or an
egg producing cell you can almost
certainly delete a gene that might
predispose you to breast cancer by the
end of next year we will begin to know
how easy or difficult it is to replace
them deleting is not a problem replacing
it completely with the new information
is is a threshold we're about to cross
that threshold
there's a paper published about a month
ago which uses
AI alcapurrias in a second but uses AI
and genetics to predict human height
this was unpredictable before we had we
knew that height was highly heritable
but there was no algorithm that would
allow us to predict the height of a
child or a person based on genetic
information alone but as far as AI is
concerned
this will give you very quickly what
what the field refers to what it means
so
in AI
we are
using we're learning to use
algorithms in computers that
simulate or are similar to the nature of
human learning
imagine building a
computational architecture which
captures knowledge in this manner our
old computational architectures were
based on rulebook kind of learning we
would tell computers here a set of rules
and computers were very good at it they
could organize sets of rules and if you
gave them rules if you gave them a kind
of if then else statement if it has ears
it has hair and this happens it must be
a dog if it's this color it must be that
bla bla bla bla bla bla but in in with
deep learning and with neural networks
you don't supply the rules you supply
experiences you supply a mechanism for
the machine to acquire its own knowledge
structure and overtime just like a child
learns we think the machine learns in
the same way now the interesting thing
about it is that just like a child
learns and then begins to use that
information in powerful ways you can
present it with complex problems the
child and the child can now start
solving the complex problems just based
on its
heuristic or experiential learning the
machine can do that too
[Music]